# voting-system-using-fingerprint-barcode
Voting system using fingerprint/barcode Project is a application where the user is recognized by his finger pattern and barcode. Since the finger pattern of each human being is different, the voter can be easily authenticated. The system allows the voter to vote through his fingerprint and id card. Fingerprint is used to uniquely identify the user. The finger print minutiae features are different for each human being. Finger print is used as a authentication of the voters. Voter can vote the candidate only once, the system will not allow the candidate to vote for the second time. The system will allow admin to add the candidate name and candidate photo who are nominated for the election. Admin only has the right to add candidate name who are nominated. Admin will register the voter’s name by verifying voters. Admin will authenticate the user by verifying the user’s identity proof and then admin will register the voter. The number of candidate added to the system by the admin will be automatically deleted after the completion of the election. Admin has to add the date when the election going to end. Once the user has got the user id and password from the admin the user can login and vote for the candidate who are nominated. The system will allow the user to vote for only one candidate. The system will allow the user to vote for one time for a particular election. Admin can add any number of candidates when the new election will be announced. Admin can view the election result by using the election id. Even user can view the election result. 
